README.md, before:

# espros
ROS serial for ESP8266 through WiFi

2017 Agustin Nunez (https://github.com/agnunez/espros.git) 

This is an adaptation of ROS-serial-arduino to run on an stand-alone ESP8266 with WiFi
instead of wired USB UART cable, based on http://answers.ros.org/users/1034/ahendrix/
proposed solution for Arduino with WiFi shield.

The reason being that ESP8266 (or ESP32) are much powerful and cheaper tha AVR Arduinos
with more memory and speed and integrating WiFi for 10 times less cost. The use of I2C 
or SPI in ESP8266 allows to expand the number of GPIO's at wish. The vision is that 
every sensor or actuator node in a ROS-robot can be created using a single $2 ESP8266,
with just power supply or powerbank battery, avoiding harness and reducing total cost.

esproswifi  

Example program taken from http://answers.ros.org/users/1034/ahendrix/ for Arduino and
adapted to ESP8266, NodeMCU dev module. Please, modify ssid/password of your Wifi and 
IP of your roscore server. Your ESP8266 will try to connect to 11411 port at that server IP
To allow the connection, run roscore of course, and later:

            $ rosrun rosserial_python serial_node.py tcp

chatter

The standard ros tutorial client, working via Serial cable adapted for ESP8266
This example is particulary suitable for Witty ESP8266 dev platform and allow
to toggle all its leds by publishing to /led topic with stdmsg/Int16 that 
correspond to its gpio pin ESP12E number, (i.e. 2,12,13,15)

CarEspRos

NodeMCU with motor shield and 2 DC motors plus infrared encoders wheels (DoIt car) implementation in ROS WiFi
with esproswifi approach. Encoder counters are pusblished and basic movement with time length as subscriptions.
Car is moved with messages like: 

$ rostopic pub -1 /car/forward std_msgs/Int16 1000 // to move foward 1000 ms, use backward, right or left

Car encoders can be read with:

$ rostopic echo /car/leftencoder

CarEspRosServo

This is a version of CarEspRos above with addition of Servo in D7 nodeMCU pin (GPIO13 of ESP12). This Servo
ROS subscription can be used, to rotate a Steering Wheel, or other usages. See later. Message to publish is:

$ rostopic pub -1 /car/angle std_msgs/Int16 80  // to adjust to Servo center angle (min:0, max:255)

CarEspRosServoRange

This version accumulate previous functionality plus provides a range distance measurement in centimeters
on the orientation given by servo angle. Range topic can be received with:

$ rostopic echo /car/range

EspOdom

This is a preliminary version with Odometry and tf support. Be careful that rosserial includes need
an update of ArduinoHardware.h, ESP8266Hardware.h and ros.h files. Check that your distro have them
or copy the ones included here to avoid typedef errors. With this EspOdom version, you can already
test rviz by running

$ rosrun rviz rviz

This code is part of a much larger project to build an open source ROS Robot, called Gara

Have fun,

Agustin

Commit message:

PID_test v1.0 with interative Kp, Ki & Kd value setting

README.md, after:

# espros
ROS serial for ESP8266 through WiFi

2017 Agustin Nunez (https://github.com/agnunez/espros.git) 

This is an adaptation of ROS-serial-arduino to run on an stand-alone ESP8266 with WiFi
instead of wired USB UART cable, based on http://answers.ros.org/users/1034/ahendrix/
proposed solution for Arduino with WiFi shield.

The reason being that ESP8266 (or ESP32) are much powerful and cheaper tha AVR Arduinos
with more memory and speed and integrating WiFi for 10 times less cost. The use of I2C 
or SPI in ESP8266 allows to expand the number of GPIO's at wish. The vision is that 
every sensor or actuator node in a ROS-robot can be created using a single $2 ESP8266,
with just power supply or powerbank battery, avoiding harness and reducing total cost.

esproswifi  

Example program taken from http://answers.ros.org/users/1034/ahendrix/ for Arduino and
adapted to ESP8266, NodeMCU dev module. Please, modify ssid/password of your Wifi and 
IP of your roscore server. Your ESP8266 will try to connect to 11411 port at that server IP
To allow the connection, run roscore of course, and later:

            $ rosrun rosserial_python serial_node.py tcp

chatter

The standard ros tutorial client, working via Serial cable adapted for ESP8266
This example is particulary suitable for Witty ESP8266 dev platform and allow
to toggle all its leds by publishing to /led topic with stdmsg/Int16 that 
correspond to its gpio pin ESP12E number, (i.e. 2,12,13,15)

CarEspRos

NodeMCU with motor shield and 2 DC motors plus infrared encoders wheels (DoIt car) implementation in ROS WiFi
with esproswifi approach. Encoder counters are pusblished and basic movement with time length as subscriptions.
Car is moved with messages like: 

$ rostopic pub -1 /car/forward std_msgs/Int16 1000 // to move foward 1000 ms, use backward, right or left

Car encoders can be read with:

$ rostopic echo /car/leftencoder

CarEspRosServo

This is a version of CarEspRos above with addition of Servo in D7 nodeMCU pin (GPIO13 of ESP12). This Servo
ROS subscription can be used, to rotate a Steering Wheel, or other usages. See later. Message to publish is:

$ rostopic pub -1 /car/angle std_msgs/Int16 80  // to adjust to Servo center angle (min:0, max:255)

CarEspRosServoRange

This version accumulate previous functionality plus provides a range distance measurement in centimeters
on the orientation given by servo angle. Range topic can be received with:

$ rostopic echo /car/range

EspOdom

This is a preliminary version with Odometry and tf support. Be careful that rosserial includes need
an update of ArduinoHardware.h, ESP8266Hardware.h and ros.h files. Check that your distro have them
or copy the ones included here to avoid typedef errors. With this EspOdom version, you can already
test rviz by running

$ rosrun rviz rviz

PID_test

This is a stand-alone tool to tune differential drive robot PID's. You can install this sketch in your ESP8266 connected to the motors with encoders, and use the Arduino IDE monitor to send commands, while visualizing speed or other parameters in real time.
Commands available are:
  s nnn (set speed of both motors to nn.n encoder tick per second. (nnn is divide by 10))
  p nnn (set proportional constant Kp of both motor pid's to nn.n)
  i nnn (set integral constant Ki of both motor pid's to nn.n)
  d nnn (set derivative constant Kp of both motors pid's to nn.n)
while doing this, you will keep receiving the speeds of both motors in CSV format, so one can cut&paste this on a spreadsheet and draw a chart with variations
Inside the code, there are other parameters that can be preconfigured like initial Kp,Ki,Kd PID period (implemented in a timer loop), and other constants.
The parameters preconfigured are suited for simple car but with DC motor and simple encoder (no quadrature), but can be easily modified for other robots.


This code is part of a much larger project to build an open source ROS Robot, called Gara

Have fun,

Agustin
